So let's start putting this into Flexbox
and I'm going to start here with the URL.
The important thing to remember is that
the URL is going to be the parent or
the flex container, all right.
So that is the outside box.
All of these LI's there
are children of that URL.
So the LS are flex items.
The URL is the flex container or
the parent, and
that's gonna drive a whole
bunch of these properties.
So we'll start here with the URL and
we'll set it up to display flex,
and immediately that is going
to put all of our boxes
here on one line Just like that.
And you see here that my box has some
height set to it because I set my URL
to have a height of 500 pixels and so
there it is and now all my boxes
are here all together in one line.
Make note of the fact that
the boxes are different sizes.
How big are they?
I set a min width of 100 pixels and
I set a height of 100 pixels and so
the minimum size of these boxes is going
to be 100 pixels by 100 pixels and
I did that just so that you would be
able to see this a little bit better.
If you take that out the min width and
the min height here you'll
see even more strikingly that
these boxes can get quite narrow.
They're as big as their content by default
if you don't have a min height and
a min width set, and
that is their flexible boxes so
that they are gonna try to cram themselves
into as little space as possible.
The next thing to take a look
at is our flex direction.
And this property you may not
see us that much because many
people will put it with flex flow but
flex direction and
flex wrap are the two that
form the flex flow property.
So here we can have a direction of row,
that's what it is by default.
We won't see any change
when I put that in.
We can change that to column and
everything will stack on top
of each other at that point.
We can also reverse these.
So we could say row reverse, And
we'll wind up going from six to one
instead of from one to six, okay?
Likewise, you can do a column reverse,
I'm gonna reset
this just to a regular old row and
then let's look at flex wrap.
This has to do with our boxes
when the screen gets too long,
what are we going to do to our boxes?
Are we going to cut them off?
Have them extend past
the edge of our container or
are we going to wrap
them onto another line?
And so
often this is set to wrap by default.
So you see here I've now
wrapped two boxes on to
the next line because my row gets very,
very long.
You could also set this to wrap reverse.
So notice that this is reordering
things here on the page.
So our first row goes down
to the bottom five and six,
go more towards the middle of the screen.
And we can also go to
now wrap which is our
default value no wrap will cram
everything onto the same line.
And as I said most people will
write this simply as flex flow and
then you'll have to put
in two values row wrap.
Generally speaking row wrap is what
you want for responsive design.
>> Why is there's a gap between
row one and the next row?
>> Why is there a gap between the row
one to four and then five and six?
Great question that has to do with
the next set of properties that I wanna be
talking about here in just a few moments,
so that has to do with the cross axis.
So remember here, our main axis is
horizontal, the cross axis is vertical.
We haven't started to address
those vertical properties yet.
So that's what's going on there.
>> Is it possible to wrap a limited number
of items like I wanna wrap item number
four, five and six without increasing or
decreasing the size of item one, two,
and three?
>> Just put four or five and six on
another line and not one, two, and three.
Yeah, potentially you could do that.
You would wind up having to probably
adjust your HTML a little bit
you could put one, two, and
three in a row you could put four, five,
and six in a row that's
one way of doing it.
You could set one, two and three to
have a flex basis, which I'm gonna
get to here in just a second,
that would add up to a hundred percent.
That would automate automatically wrap
four, five and six on to the next row.
So there's a couple of
different ways of doing that.
All right, so
before we leave the parent here,
all of you are starting to ask questions
about some of the other situations here.
Let's move on here to
the justification of any sort of extra
space that we have in
between ourselves here.
And to demonstrate that I'm
gonna go back to my LI let
me just comment out this min
width here for the moment and
the height ,so that you can
see that we have a row here,
so we have some extra space
over here on the side and so
now let's add to this
Are justified hyphen content so
this has to do with how we're going
to distribute this extra space.
So if we set our justify content to
flex hyphen start, that is the default
value it'll push all of our boxes
over to the left side of the screen
giving us space over on the right hand
side of the screen just like that.
If we go to flex end shockingly it's
going to push all of our boxes to
the right side of the row and
give us space on the left side of the row,
center is always a good one, center will
put all of our boxes here in the middle.
Notice that in all cases here we haven't
actually put any space in between
the boxes.
So that's these next three values
that am gonna go through and
these are the three that
get confused all the time.
So the first one is space around.
So space around says we are going to
let's just talk about one and two here.
I am going to put a space here of X.
So the browser has done some math and
it we have so much space, we have so
many boxes.
We're gonna take that space and
we're going to put a little bit
of it on each side of the box.
So this space right here
in between the border and
the edge of box one, that space is x.
I don't know what the value is.
It doesn't matter about
the browser did the math for me.
Here now in between one and
two, the space is 2x.
Because I have space on
the right from number one and
space on the left from number two.
So what you wind up having is half the
space on the edge before box number one
and half the space on the edge
over here after box number six and
then in between each of these boxes,
that is twice the space, okay?
Because you have the two individual spaces
coming together there in the middle.
So that's what's going
on with space around.
The one I find that's more useful
than that is space between
usually your designer friends will
be happier with this as well.
So what this is going to do,
is it's basically justifying the boxes.
It pushes up the box one all
the way to the left edge.
It's going to push box six all
the way over to the right and
it will evenly justify the space in
between all of the boxes in between.
So that's usually very
helpful to work with.
I find that really great to work with,
particularly when we get to our grid
system, which we'll talk about next.
And then the last one here
is a more recent value It's
well-supported by browsers right now.
If you wanna use it and
you have to support some older browsers,
you may wanna double check to make sure
it's supported by those older browsers and
that is spaced evenly.
And shockingly,
that puts the same around amount of
space around on between the edge here and
box one.
The same amount of space
between boxes one and two and
so forth, just as you would expect for
space evenly all the way across here.
So this is another very useful one
that designers like because the spaces
are divided up evenly usually space around
is the one that they are not fond of
because they think it looks
a little bit awkward.
Let's now get to the cross axis.
So we've talked about all this various
kinds of alignment here on the main axis.
This is all the row and
dealing with the spaces here on the row.
So to go to some of your
questions from earlier,
what about here on this cross axis?
And that's gonna start
here with align items.
So I'm gonna reset my justify
content here to center and
then we're gonna add the property
called align items and
so this is gonna control our
spacing here within the row and
in fact I'm gonna bring back to
my mean width and my height.
So right now as you see here,
as somebody asked earlier,
we have boxes five and six here wrapped
on to the next line here in the middle,
and this is part of this
align items type of thing.
So here, if we said Flex-start.
Then what we have here
are all of the boxes pressed
up to the top of the area that
we have available here to us.
So, what we've got is,
a row is wrapping onto another line,
everything is centering because of
the justify content of center and
then everything is pushed up towards
the top because of flex start.
If I set this the flex
end what's gonna happen?
Yep, it pushes it all the way
down here to the bottom.
So what's happening here?
Remember I've got a width and
a height that are set
artificially here on this URL.
So my height is giving me this room that
I can see this whole thing, moving space.
So that's gonna push that
down to the bottom there.
We can also say a line
items in the center.
So the center this is what a lot of people
talk about when they talk about putting
something in the very center of a screen,
justifying content center align
items at the center puts everything
centered very nicely inside of that box
center to the row centered vertically.
That's what's happening there.
We can also say baseline.
Baseline all this case is just pushed
it back up to the top of the screen,
and then stretches the last one.
And that's also doing the same thing here.
Okay, so the last one I want to tell
you about is the align content and
this is going to align elements
within the particular space
that we're talking about here and
I think this goes to
the question that somebody was
asking earlier aligned content.
Center align items center and
aligned content.
So now if I say flex start.
This pushes everything all the way to
the top without the space in between.
So the person who was asking about
the spacing between those elements,
this is how you get rid of
it with this align content.
So everything is pushed up to
the very top of this particular box.
We also have flex end which of
course pushes it all the way
down to the bottom of the box.
And we have center.
So if you wanted everything smashed
in the center without the big gap
in between those particular rows,
that's what the center is.
So three centers in order
to make that happen.
And we still have all
the options of the space.
Space between,
space around and space evenly.
So Spaced between,
Pushes these all the way to the top and
bottom of the box, space around,
>> Gives us as I said before x x amount of
space above and below to x in between and
space evenly spaces
the mall evenly in space.
>> So we can say that align
items we use in case of columns.
>> Well it depends on main axis and
cross axis so
in this particular case yes that
would be a line items would be for
the cross axis so
that would be the columns.
>> I didn't understand
the use of baseline and
stretch value what
exactly can we use it in?
Isn't it similar to the default value?
>> Yes, exactly.
So those are indeed similar
to the default value.
And so those become useful if you reset
them in one part of your layout and
you wanna change it back in
another part of the layout.
So it's always helpful to
know what those defaults are.